---
layout: master
title: Server Sponsor
---
Dear recruit,

Congratulations, your server has been approved for use on OFTC, and this
provides you with the position of a Server Sponsor. If you wish to cary through
with your server offer, please read on. If not, please inform a member of the
[Network Operations Committee](/Network Operations Committee) that you no longer
wish to sponsor a server at this time.

## Server Sponsor Guidelines ##

We appreciate your interest in providing our network with a server. In order to
ensure that your server remains connected to our network, I am providing you
with basic guidelines for all Server Sponsors.

Server sponsors are expected to provide the Head of Infrastructure Maintenance
with contact information and be reachable within a reasonable amount of time, to
warn a member of the [Network Operations Committee](/Network Operations
Committee) in advance of scheduled downtime, and to honestly answer questions
about the use of their servers.

Server Sponsors provide the Network with the use of an account on their servers,
but may not modify any of the information in those accounts without the prior
permission of the [Network Operations Committee](/Network Operations Committee)
or the Head of Infrastructure Maintenance.

As a Server Sponsor, you will be granted the right to participate in the next
election and may be offered a role within any department before that time.
Server Sponsors are not granted any special priveleges or responsibilities, but
may be offered further priveleges or responsibilities by the [Network Operations
Committee](/Network Operations Committee) at a later date.

Server Sponsors are members of the Network's Staff and as such, your words or
actions can be interpreted as the position of the Network. Misrepresentation of
the Network or the positions of the Network, or violation of any other part of
these guidelines may result in a review by the [Network Operations
Committee](/Network Operations Committee), the Head of Infrastructure, or the
[Ombudsman](/Ombudsman), and may result in action ranging from a note on your
record to your server being removed from the Network.

Failure to abide by these guidelines may result in a review by the
[Ombudsman](/Ombudsman) or by the [NOC](/NOC), potentially resulting in
disciplinary action ranging from a note on your record to expulsion from staff.

If you have questions, suggestions, or comments about your role, feel free to
contact other members of the staff.
